### SAQuaiA - Simluation & Abstraction-based Quantitative Analyzer
SAQuaiA is a tool for the quantitiative analyisis 
of Chemical Reaction Networks (CRN). The main 
use cases are:
* Simulation of CRN
* Transient anaylsis of CRN by repeated simulation
* Visualization of simulations & transient distributions
* Comparision of different advanced simulation 
methods (performance & accuracy)

Specifically, SAQuaiA implements abstraction-based 
segmental simulation using adaptive memoization where
new simulations are generated by combining short 
trajectories (called segments) of previous simulations.
(Compare: *Abstraction-Based Segmental Simulation of 
Chemical Reaction Networks* by Martin Helfrich, Milan 
Ceska, Jan Kretinsky, Stefan Marticek [in CMSB 2022](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-15034-0_3), or the [preprint](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.06677))


### Prerequisites
For the full reproduction of the evaluation
we require 16GB of RAM and 150GB of disk space.
Please install the following requirements.

1. Java 11
2. Maven
3. Python 3.X
	- libraries: matplotlib, numpy
	
Refer to the **Dockerfile** for an easy setup.

### Usage
To build the code, run the following command
in the folder **/code**:
>	mvn package
	
To reproduce the full evaluation run in the 
folder **/code**:
>	java -Xmx16g -jar target/saquaia-jar-with-dependencies.jar -e 

This can take a long time (~5weeks). In case
you only want to reproduce the data for the
PP model, run instead:
>	java -Xmx16g -jar target/saquaia-jar-with-dependencies.jar -e -f benchmarks_PPonly.json

This should take less than one hour.


### Output
All results will be located in **/results** and 
STDOUT.
CARE: The process will produce about 150GB 
of data.
To remove all data after the successful 
evaluation and only keep the evaluation report, 
add the flag -d, e.g:
>	java -Xmx16g -jar target/saquaia-jar-with-dependencies.jar -e -d


### GUI
To start the GUI version of SeQuaiA run 
in the folder **\code**:
>	java -jar target/saquaia-jar-with-dependencies.jar -gui

### Licence
See /code/LICENSE.txt
